like so that's really interesting right
because for one person
a failure means i'm a bad person
but when you feel fail when you say it's
a lesson learned that actually makes you
a better person
and so if you want to talk about what's
op it's when failure pushes one person
down
and failure pumps you up like why the
like no that's
that's op thanks for coming on on stream
today
i really appreciate it my pleasure get
big feel that i've like conquered it all
but i haven't everyone still goes
through stuff like
they still have difficult days but you
haven't conquered at all
no oh man talk about false advertising
yeah oh [ __ ] um got the wrong person
for the day and and what should i call
you my friend
you can call me whatever you like paul
passed pastely what do you prefer
honestly a pest is fine if you just call
me pest
okay sure it's easy all right so pest
tell me a little bit and you know if
there's
you know if you haven't conquered at all
then and if there's some way that i can
help you conquer something that you
haven't yet conquered
then i'm i'm i would love to be of
service to you
um okay what's the question
sorry there wasn't a question there i
was just it was an offer
more than a question but no like the
point i'm trying to make is um i don't
i don't like bounce out of bed every day
like yes i'm ready to next do the next
thing like there are days where you wake
up and you're like
this is not a good day you know but and
then you
you have to either self-reflect on that
day and and just
write it off as this is a day that's not
gonna be very productive compared to
other days where i can wake up wake up
and i'll work 18 hours straight and i'll
just be still like keen to keep going
but
i know i need to sleep okay so can you
tell me about
um can you just tell us a little bit
about yourself and
and kind of how you wound up where you
are today
all right i'll give the the shortest
spiel i can so
i'm one of eight my dad um has had uh
eight children with four different women
and so i've got one full sister and the
other ones are all half but we all
consider each other brothers and sisters
we've
got a really big family um i don't
really speak that much too much
but i'm very open about any questions
that people ask me so
big family and um i'm the seventh of the
eight
grew up in a place uh just in victoria
in australia
and uh a bit bit more of a country side
of things but
um you know just just a general kid like
skateboarding and all that kind of stuff
wanted to leave school to join the army
but i didn't because my mom wanted me to
finish school
so i finished school and then kind of
scored me out a little bit
school meaning high school okay year 12
completed my normal education okay i
tried university but i did not like it
three months i was out um and then
um i joined as a reservist in the
military for a uh for a period of time
uh where you do like you got to do your
basic training and then you just go back
to living your normal life and
you train once a week but i didn't enjoy
that too much and then i went
full time when i was 21 years old and
spent eight years in the military
in the infantry in the army and then
after eight years in the army i
left with no real direction and
i was going to take some time just to
reflect on life and do what i enjoy
which was fishing and computer games
and i started streaming to find friends
and
then after three or four months i
thought hey i could actually make
something of this
and three years later which is now but
just about hit the three-year mark
i would consider myself a pretty
successful content creator
wow that's awesome man
yeah quite the unorthodox story
right yeah i was a firefighter for a
little bit as well um
after the army as well yeah so can you
tell us a little bit about
um okay so kind of let's start from the
beginning what
what what was it you mentioned that
you're you had
seven siblings correct yeah
it's a little bit weird because all of
them are older except for one
um so like most of them were like adults
doing adult things like jobs and all
that stuff and i was still like a pretty
young
kid but um now that i'm a bit older it's
great like
i've got family everywhere it feels like
but yeah um
yeah um my parents separated
when i was three years old and um that
was a
i don't know i'm sure most people have
their parents split up it's never the
most easiest time
um you know separated parents but i
still got a really good relationship
with both my mum and dad
um i talk calm every week i'm living in
the netherlands at the moment
i probably should have chunked that one
in there um and so everyone's back in
australia i'm in the netherlands so
i call them every week and say hello and
yeah
how did you wind up how did you end up
in the netherlands
so in 2012 i was climbing a mountain in
australia which
they're kind of like big hills for the
rest of the world um and
i was sitting up on top of a hill or
mount with my mate and i said you know
what i'd love to do this more
and so i started building this plan
where i heard the story of a guy who
climbed the highest peak of every
country of europe
he didn't he went to do it in six months
the war broke out in kosovo and it took
him two and a half years instead
and so i said i want to do the same
thing i want to try and do it in six
months and then i started planning
around my long service leave in the army
so in australia
after you work for 10 years you get six
months off at half pay or three months
at full
and i um i was planning this trip and
then when i left the army i said i'm
still doing the trip i don't care i'm
going to europe
and then so this year because of how the
twitch stream turned out
i caught instead of doing all the
climbing mountains i was still going to
climb some but i was going to more just
see the world
and then kovid broke out and i spent
nearly the entire time
in the netherlands instead i see
interesting
can i think for a second go for it
so past you sound different and what do
i mean
so what i'm really curious about is
sometimes you know people wake up and
they say i want to do something
and then that's as far as they get
right they're like oh man it would be
cool to climb mountains in europe
and yet i'm already hearing something
very different about you because
when you think about something you
actually like
kind of go out and do it yeah
um yeah my wife kind of helds me back
sometimes with that
i have these crazy ideas right so all
like when i started streaming i was like
what if i like okay so most people won't
know but in escape from tarkov there was
used to be like at level 40 everything
would start like that would be the end
of the game
i was like what if i did that in one
sitting and my wife would sit there and
be like how are you going to do that
like i'll just not sleep i'll just keep
playing
you know and so then i when it happened
i streamed for like literally
40 hours straight and i did it you know
like most people would be like nah
that's just stupid why would you do that
but i'm like no i'll try it
like i don't like referring myself as
to like someone like david goggins but
like his kind of mentality where it's
if anyone doesn't know david goggins
he's just kind of the kind of person
that just
i can run a hundred miles i don't know
if i can physically but if i can't my
body's gonna be the one that stops me
not my mind you know like he'll push it
to the right to the end
um and for me it's kind of very similar
like i said i say i want to do something
i actually
try my best to do it and the only thing
that's going to stop me is if my body
won't let me kind of thing
i try and let my mind yeah so so how
long have you been that way
i don't know um i've always been the
kind of person where
if there was a fire people would run
from it i'd be the one to run to it
so um an example would be like
uh people watch that 10 hour iar stream
and people be like that's insane that
sounds so horrible i'm like i want
like my feeling is i wonder what it
feels like to listen to iar for 10 hours
straight
so then i go and do it i i don't know
how long it's been like that but
for a long time i've always kind of been
i guess it's curious
of what the world has to offer i i don't
know any other better ways of exploring
explaining it sorry yeah so it's
interesting so i literally just wrote
the word curiosity
and and what i'm kind of thinking about
past is that that you know so let's say
that like
you're not you right and i think this is
a
common issue which is that most of the
people on twitch are not you
and and what i'm kind of curious about
is what can we learn from you is it just
that you're wired differently do you
just i mean
did you just born you were born with the
slightly insane curiosity hard-working
trait and and therefore there's
something about your brain
or your just you were born different
which is why you
like you are where you are now and so
people who weren't born with that
will never be where you are i don't
think that's the case
i think after my after finishing school
i used to always look at my friends and
they would always want to do
what i found was just mediocre or boring
no one wanted
to explore or have fun like my version
of fun which is like let's
go and see what is over there or let's
go and do that and so
there is definitely a comfort zone that
people live in
and i always had to push myself to go
into those
discomfort areas um when i signed up to
join the military i had full intention
to join special forces
um and my mate joined the army with me
my best mate at the time and in the
lead up training to join in the army
which there was no requirement to do any
of this [ __ ] we did um
we would just find stuff to do that
would push ourselves mentally and
physically because we knew
if we were to get into the special
forces they're going to make us do the
most
craziest [ __ ] you could think of so like
we lived
near the surf beaches down in victoria
are in australia and we'd be like
alright it's a pretty choppy day let's
go swim out to the boy and back
and i wasn't even a good swimmer but i
was like i'm doing it like because
that's what we did
um and one of my mates was really good
with that i think it's more of like an
alpha male
beta male kind of thing sometimes um i
never really saw myself as an alpha male
i was always a little bit of a follower
um before the army
but i kind of took my strive once i hit
the military side and i had to take
charge because i just saw how
i don't use the word lazy but some
people are really lazy they find that
lazy people can actually be really good
because they can find the easiest way to
get [ __ ] done quick because they just
want to get it done
they don't have to spend any time the
more time they have to um or they just
don't do it at all
correct which is the most annoying time
but um
but yeah like a lot of people like to
find the easy way i try and find the
right way
yeah so how long have you been like that
where does that come from
i don't know i i don't know right so pes
i i think the challenge here and if it's
okay with you maybe we'll explore that a
little bit because i think
i'm still hearing i can i can imagine
you know who i was when i was 21 22 23
and listening to this conversation and
just
feeling like i wish i was like you
i'm not like you that you're lucky
that i have when everyone else runs away
from the fire i want to be the guy that
runs towards it
but unfortunately i'm like everyone else
when i think about joining the special
forces it's something that i want to do
but because i know they're going to put
me through the hardest things
possible instead of swimming out to the
buoy and back
i'm just not going to get into the water
at all
that's the guy that i am
and i look at you and i say that you're
not like me
and then what i would say is that here
is a guy who is disciplined
and i am a guy who is lazy and i would
define you in one way and i would define
myself
in a completely different way and i
would say if i was in your bucket then i
would be successful
but i'm in my bucket therefore i'm
screwed
i'll tell you a story so when i signed
up to be a reservist in the army i was
19 years old
i spent a bit of time away from home but
i was never really extremely out of my
comfort zone when i went out
out from home like you know what i mean
like when i went away it was always like
a little bit discomfort
when i did my my basic training uh it
went for about 47 days
and um i hated it i absolutely hated it
and to the point where i contacted my
my parents and said i want to go home
and i used to work for my stepfather
and i said can you write me a letter to
say that i'll need it back at work
because literally that's all you would
require to go home
like if you you know the military had to
oblige by people's contracts of business
and that
so he wrote me a letter and i got the
letter and
i walked down this the hallway and
knocked on the door of the corporals and
and i said i need to speak to you know
my corporal and he he got me in the room
and he goes what's this letter and i'm
like oh you know i need to go back home
for work
and um he said i'm just going to talk to
you like a new normal human being here
because they they would have that like
you know persona that they're always
like
big people goes i know this is full [ __ ]
i know you don't want to be here
but if you quit this right now every
time something gets difficult in life
you are going to quit and you're not
gonna you're not gonna finish it
this is the easy way out there's only
three weeks left
and even if you hate the three weeks at
least at the end of it you can hold your
head up high and say
you done it it was [ __ ] but you did it
and then when
anything gets hard in life you can
always push through and finish it
because of that
now i remember that guy's name exactly
and i remember what he looks like and he
probably
doesn't even remember who i am but he is
probably one of the most influential
people in my life
because from that point there i always
kept that mentality i finished that
training and i said this
is this is something that i need to make
sure i do because of that reason
now he might have just been talking [ __ ]
he might have been like
you know he got told to tell that thing
but it actually did have a big influence
on me
that one in particular um what was that
sorry do you remember when he said that
do you remember how you felt
probably felt a little bit embarrassed
at the time because i got called out you
know
like he called my bluff
but at the same time
i felt like there was a bit more respect
there because he knew i was going to try
and push through
so i think that worked and i think later
on in particular
um because you go through like you're
doing field training and all that stuff
there was that little bit of like almost
like mutual respect there because he
knew i was pushing through my discomfort
so
yeah it's interesting right
yep that definitely is
so i know this is going to sound kind of
weird
past i think it's a fantastic story
perfect time to tell it
because i think it says so much but what
do you think are the important points of
that story
what are the takeaways
oh for me at the time at least and and
to now it's like
um i guess in a metaphor you could
probably say
anytime life gets tough it doesn't mean
it's you can't get through it it's you
need to push
you can push through discomfort isn't
always
you know it doesn't mean it's not life
isn't meant to be easy there's going to
be times that are tough and
getting through it you know is
achievable if you
really want it yeah so you know oddly
enough i'm going to kind of disagree
with you there
because and follow me for a second okay
it's not that i disagree that you're
actually wrong but i'm going to take a
slightly different approach
disagree is not the right word so what
you're saying is that you have it within
you to push through
and then what i think about is all the
people who decided to submit the letter
and walk away and then when we hear
pests say
you have it within you to not quit
a funny thing happens which is that you
actually
that story i think is just as likely to
create
shame as it is to create inspiration
because then what everyone does is they
look at you and they say pest is the guy
who decided to push through
and i'm the guy who decided to not push
through
and you know just like you said your
corporal gave you a choice and he's like
if you quit now
you're gonna be a quitter
and i think that a lot of people end up
quitting and now they think about
themselves as quitters and when you say
if you really put your mind in to it you
have the capacity to push through
which sounds inspirational but it's also
kind of damning because that means that
like
if you didn't push through you always
could have and it's your [ __ ] fault
which i think is don't get me wrong but
i think there's one really other
important piece of the to the story
which is that
in that moment that corporal had faith
in
and what happened is someone you were a
quitter when you walked into that office
it wasn't actually like entirely you
that decided to not quit
right your quitter you got the letter
and everything
called home figured out how to do it had
the letter in your hand you were like 99
percent
quitter and then the corporal looks at
you and he has he has faith
he looks at you and he says no [ __ ]
and he says that i think you're not the
person because he could have just
accepted the letter right he could have
been like all right
fine you have the letter adios but he
looked at you and he said
you know what i don't think even though
you've come 99
you're a 99 quitter i'm not willing to
accept
that you're 100 of a quitter yet
i think that within you there's someone
who's not a quitter
and when you say you know he was one of
the most important people in your life i
think that's
why right because like in that moment
you had become a quitter or you were
just really really close
you'd set everything up to quit and then
here's one guy who says you know i just
don't think that
that's who you have to be i think you've
got a different option
what do you think about that i think
it's fair
i've never really thought of it in that
in that respect so
and again and i guess it could it could
be damaging to people to feel like
because
if i had gone home then i probably would
have reflected it as
i'm now a quitter for the rest of my
life and or i don't know if i would have
but it could have
so it could be just as damaging as it is
trying to push someone through that
it's it's hard also for me though
because
a lot of the stuff you hear in the
military post that like after i went
full time in that there's a lot of talk
like that
like you know like uh
you know like pain is weakness leaving
the body
like all those kind of sayings where
it's like
um you know they'll just try they'll
literally say anything to get you
through something
like they will literally say anything to
get you through something yep so
yeah i think that's kind of an
interesting idea too because like i
think the point is that
you know they'll say anything to get you
through but i think at the end of the
day
you're the person who gets through it
right i mean they can say pain is
weakness leaving the body but like i
mean they can say whatever they want to
and it may help you psychologically for
a time but at the end of the day
you're the one that did it they can't do
it for you they can say whatever the
[ __ ] they want to trick you
or push you but you're the one who has
to do it and you're the one who
did do it which is awesome
can you tell us a little bit more about
um
you know what what it was like being in
the military
um there was
i always i'll summarize it as there's a
lot of boring times a lot of time where
you're literally sitting around and
there is
nothing going on i want to like be 100
straight here i didn't spend any time in
the middle east i haven't seen any
combat
i spent most of my time in southeast
asia i speak indonesian
as a linguist um and
i spent most of my time in in training
and exercises in australia so
for me it was mostly very boring sitting
around
tedious times and or
very physically demanding painful times
on my body
um where either i was in charge of
people that i had to push them through
situations that were quite difficult um
i was
mostly in a leadership role for most of
my time in the military
where i was like either you know in
charge of soldiers or training people
and
um it was it was probably
i didn't like a lot of it but i did it
because i know a lot of people
were very proud of me doing it um
you know like my mum or dad when i ever
called him up and i was like you know
like i'm
you know thinking about ending in a year
or so they'll be like oh but stable job
it pays really well you get to see the
world and i'm like yeah it does but
you don't get to see you know fear of
not having a weekend
just because it's you know your time to
do guard duty that they decide
to give it to you on a friday or
something like that there's a lot of
really really stressful times in the
military and i think that's why
a lot of people come out of the military
like exhausted looking 100 years older
and then
also missing the friendships and the
camaraderie of it because
they always had their mates there
whereas when you leave it's a lot harder
so it's a very very difficult place
it's not for everyone what was it like
to leave
it was like i'd had a constant pressure
on my shoulders for a long time
and it was finally off what was that
pressure
well i would argue i i wait for a
majority of the time in the career but
like in all seriousness it was i always
felt like someone was
ready to just tell me off for something
or to send me away somewhere or
just control full control over my life i
quit the army
and um my girlfriend at the time is now
my wife um
she she knew i was literally just
quitting and i had no job lined up i was
going
to just put myself back into the society
and just forget about a lot of the
experiences that i've been through
um that are just really been hard
on me so fast let me ask you a question
you know it's so interesting because you
use the word quit i just quit the army
the interesting thing is that i can i
can almost envision
quitting is not like i think what would
have been quitting like spiritually
quitting
would have been to stay does that make
sense yeah
that sometimes quitting is like that's
the hard thing
like because at some point you know
sticking in the staying
in the life that you've become
comfortable in
a stable job good pay kind of
respectable
you know like all that kind of stuff
like walking away from that
is actually the hard thing and and i'm
also hearing kind of a common thread
here which is that like
you know in your corporal's office you
also
by staying you actually walked away from
something
you walked away from a life of comfort
right you could have peaced out could
have taken the easier road
and you walked away from the easy road
and oddly enough what i'm hearing about
even though you used the word quit is
that you actually walked away from
stability security something you had
known
without anything in place that actually
sounds like it takes
it sounds hard not easy yeah most people
thought i'd go back
and like a large amount of people
thought i'd be back in the military
and why did they think that
i'm very passionate about anything i do
so i took a lot of pride
in the work that i did in the military
um
i had lined up a position where i would
actually be a chinese translator as well
where i'd learn chinese and
i was i was trying to line up a few
things that would probably get me
into like say embassy positions later on
in my career
like i wasn't going to just be sitting
down the bottom runs like forever i
actually was pretty ambitious
um so everyone had always seen how hard
working and passionate i was about the
job
but as soon as i quit and as soon as i
resigned
and i went into a new path and i could
put my passion into something else well
i think the evidence is clear how when i
really am passionate about something how
far i can take it so
i think the military if anything was
actually holding me back
on my potential more than anything and
how did you come to decide to leave
um i had an
argument with the ceo
which was pretty much the deciding
factor um i
was meant to be studying chinese in
melbourne um
that year and due to controls from like
career management they stuffed up and i
was got pushed back one year
and so then i had to resubmit the form
the following year then i did it as soon
as i started the year and then
the ceo didn't approve it and i said why
didn't you approve it and he says you
were in an infantry hat badge or an
infantry
soldier for life and i'm like i'm not
going to be treated like that anymore
i'd i'd been putting up with that kind
of
bs for a long time and i was like i
i'm going to do anything else and then
as soon as i resigned and put my
discharge paperwork in
two months later i had a posting order
saying that i'm going to melbourne to do
chinese studies and i said nope i've
made my decision i'm going
so
can i process that for a second yep
pass i i when you tell these stories i
think about moments from my own life
and it's interesting i think you know
some people talk about
success as taking advantage of good
opportunities
my experience has been that success is
walking away from good opportunities
you know when when they give you
everything that you want to
being able to say you know what no thank
you
i'm gonna do it my own way um
it's interesting i have a story very
much like your corporal story too
um but wow that's that's impressive man
so can
what would you when you when they gave
you that paperwork or gave you the
option to go study chinese in melbourne
do you remember how you felt
um i expected it i i i expected it
they they they called me into the
battalion hq and they were they said
uh we've got your posting order here and
we've got your discharge paper
do you want to throw your discharge
paper out now that we've got your
posting order and
i said no but it wasn't the big bosses
that were telling me that that was the
clerks
but i walked straight out and i was just
like that's so typical like i knew that
was gonna happen
because what's typical about that uh
so the military will what they do is
they
it's a numbers game it's all about they
need to kick all their quotas all their
boxes for promotions and and their
their career progressions so for the ceo
it's for him it's about
the first thing he needs to do is get so
many people through all their
you know all the officers need to get
all their quotas done for the year et
cetera et cetera and it goes
it trickles down right and then the
worst thing they can have is
low retention rate so first thing they
want to do is they want to kick all
their boxes so they need as many
soldiers to do that
but then the worst thing after that is
to you know lose their corporals because
it's hard to get good corporals i i
consider myself a good corporal when i
was one or so
um and so then me
leaving the military after eight years
and uh due for promotion and stuff
it's just you know it's just so easy for
them to go oh we'll just you know now
that
you know he's called our bluff we'll
just do that
so i i didn't fully expect it but i said
there's a i thought there was a pretty
high chance
that it was actually going to happen and
and why didn't you take the posting
um i'm kind of the person that when they
make their decision to do something and
start a new thing i'm going to go for
the new thing a new exciting route of
fishing and computer games
can you help me understand what decision
you made when
your ceo denied your application
um i called up my girlfriend and said
um the ceo didn't approve it and
in the past when they've done that they
um
generally don't uh they don't
they don't post you once the ceo says no
so i said to her
i said i'm not going to stay in the
infantry any longer my shoulders are
cooked
like legitimately my shoulders are just
destroyed and i'm not going to break my
back
for you know in the infantry if i do for
a core transfer that could take
a year and that's if it even happens i'm
not gonna i don't i didn't want to stick
around with that anymore i wanted to
move into intelligence something using
my head instead of my body
and so i said that i'll try something
new
and we just started a plan which at the
moment at that point she didn't even
have a job
um or she was working part-time and i
was like all right well i'm gonna
quit so we need to like start applying
for jobs together
and uh she got a really good job and uh
yeah we just went with it
sounds like you were like you said the
weight on your back it sounds like
control like it sounds like you
were tired of not having control over
where your life went
correct yeah 100 and so what was it like
after you left
it was it was a little bit
i i would always want to work like i'm
i'm not the kind of person that can just
lay on the couch for a couple of days
like maybe one or two days but the third
day i'm like i need to do something so
i was like trying to find little odd
jobs to do to help people out if anyone
needed a hand with anything i went
um back to victoria just for a week to
build a retaining wall for my mum
like i just whatever i could do i would
just do but in the in the
other times i'd either be playing
computer games to you know find friends
or
i went fishing tell me about fishing
um it's really good i don't i
for me it's i'm not very good fisherman
i want to be really clear right now i'm
not a good fisherman at all i just like
the idea that
i'm out in the water on a boat i can
just relax
it's like freedom like there's nothing
around
and i can who knows what's going to come
up i could get
you know like some massive tuna or i
could get like a little kind of
shitty you know bait fish kind of thing
it doesn't really matter to me it's just
about
the adventure and fun of being out there
you know pasta once again noticing i'm
hearing you say a lot of things that
make me think that
we're fundamentally different people so
when you say
you know after two or three days of
laying around on the couch i need to get
up and do something
whereas in my experience two or three
days is just getting started
forced relaxation is hard for me like
it's my mind is always ticking
yeah i have a kind of random question
have you ever
wondered whether you have like 80d
um no not really
yeah interesting um so it sounds like
you kind of get restless and bored
easily
yeah i'd say that okay
i feel like i have a lot of ideas in my
head and i
i i've gotten better at writing them
down uh i used to want to start a stream
i used to have a notebook and pen right
next to me
and i used to write everything
physically down but now i use a a
program instead
um but
i'm the kind of person like i i just
like my most creative
periods are like when i'm laying in bed
in the shower
just doing those really mundane me like
i'm i've got a an exercise bike behind
me like when i'm on on the bike
like when i'm just zoned out that's when
my head's just gone crazy with all these
random ideas
and then when i'm in work mode it's just
like go go go
so yeah i'm
trying to figure out how to pull
certain i think there are a couple of
important principles here
about you know idleness of the mind
spending time in nature um
how to go go so like here's just one
tidbit for example so i think a lot of
people once again what i'm envisioning
uh pest is that as people hear this
conversation they
i find themselves thinking more and more
i find myself thinking if i were them
thinking that oh this guy's like i'm
just different from him
i'm not someone that can go go my
problem is that i can't go go go
my problem is that i go and then the
other three goes don't happen
i stop it's not go go it's a go stop
stop
and and so i'm and the more that you
kind of speak about the way that your
mind functions
i'm thinking that like your solutions
are not going to work for them because
you're just a different kind of person
you know they can get behind some things
like they're bored easily too
they also get curious i think they also
have a lot of thoughts in their head
but all it ever stays is thoughts in the
head
so how do you get from being
disorganized and having a bunch of
thoughts
to going going going do you have a sense
of that
i i i know exactly everything you're
saying
is the question how do i make these
thoughts go into action
yes
i i bounce a lot of ideas off my my wife
but
in before her i would always just
i would just think about the process of
how that would actually happen
so for example climbing mountains across
europe
i would think of all right what are they
what are the ways i could
hire a buy a car i could sleep in the
car i could backpack
i could and i would just go think about
all those options and then i would just
slowly just broaden my ideas on
other people's experiences or what
things that could actually work there's
a guy who
he traveled from somewhere in europe i
can't remember exactly
around the world and it cost him like
two thousand dollars and he just
backpacked and you know hitchhiked and
worked on people's boats to get from
country to country he just did whatever
he had to do
like almost like a nomad kind of person
like
there is a wealth of information out
there if you're willing to just go to
the effort of researching it and then
i don't know i just try and figure out
ways to make it happen
and i suppose taking the first step is
probably the hardest point and then once
you take the first step then you kind of
if you go into it by the mindset of you
when you start something you're going to
finish it
well now you've got no choice you've got
to keep going so i don't think the first
step is the hardest step
i mean so sorry i i agree that taking
the first step is the hardest step i
think the problem is that
taking the first step is not one step
it's a thousand steps
there's a thousand steps between step
zero
and step one and if we listen to you
that's what we hear
right you have an idea and then you
think about the how
you externalize the idea you discuss the
idea you call it broadening your
experience
can i draw you a diagram
yep and apologies i'm curious i'm going
to try to hypothesize something
and i'm curious whether you think that
this is accurate or not
because the basic issue is you
beautifully put it is how does an
idea become an action and i think pestly
when we look at you
what we see is a guy for whom idea and
action are very close together
and when i look at most of the the
people that like are my people or people
like me
what i see is that there's a big gap
between idea and action
so the issue is how does an idea become
an action
how does an idea become a reality
and i want to i want to toss something
out and see if you would agree
okay i am i could use heaps of the
examples where most people would look at
me and go
that's crazy like i already decided i
was going to raise a million dollars for
starlight before my channel took off
like a starlight also it's a children's
charity in australia
so um last year in december i
sat down my wife and i said i want to do
something good with this channel i want
to give back
and i said next year let's raise a
million dollars for starlight children's
foundation australia
and then the end of the year i had a
massive um
i've had a drops event on on on my game
and and my channel blew up
even more than it already was and so
then i spent this whole year
just devising different ways on how we
could raise money and we hit
a million dollars in seven months
instead of taking the whole year
like i don't know like stuff like that
where i just think of it and i go how
would i
could i do this is it feasible like is
it possible
and once i know it's possible then i
just go all right what are the steps we
need to take and i go for it
like right so so i think i think there's
a subtle so
so this is the problem pest is that a
lot of people think about the steps that
they take
and then you go for it and we don't
it's too much too many steps
so i think you're cognitively doing
something very interesting
okay so let's say you have an idea and
you apology you can see this right
yep okay so generally speaking here's
what happens when we have an idea
we get bored of it just like you do okay
we're not disagreeing that you don't get
bored
we'd get bored you get bored this idea
turns into other ideas so idea number
two
idea number three idea number four
right and then we think about this for a
little while and this is idea number ten
idea number six idea number 12.
and then tomorrow comes and nothing
happens you with me
does that make sense yeah it does okay
so let's think about so that's us here's
you
so you get bored of idea as well i know
it sounds weird
and then what happens is you actually
have a second idea
but
but your idea is how
does idea number one work
and then what you do is you talk to
people
about idea number one and then you
also
externalize idea number one
i i don't know if this makes sense but
do you see how talking to people
about traveling is not the same as
thinking about traveling
when you get it makes it real it makes
it actually an
action actually thing instead of just a
thing inside the mind
it's now in i want to use the word
universe but it's actually
people have now been involved in it as
well
sure so i think that also is especially
true for for this one over here which is
about externalizing
but what i what i want you to notice is
that like if you think about the
cognitive action or the cognitive
interest about thinking about something
and talking to someone about it
those are like fundamentally things you
can get bored of thinking about
something
and you can go to talk to someone about
it and it'll be interesting if you talk
to them
does that make sense correct yep
the interesting thing is at the end of
all of these
you come back to idea number one
does that make sense yeah so whereas
this person ends up with like you know
spending
a little bit of their time on ideas two
three four five six seven eight nine ten
eleven twelve
you still have a different cognitive
action here
you don't get bored if you're thinking
about if you're doing research on the
internet
and then you talk to someone and then
you jot things down on a piece of paper
cognitively it's not the same as just
thinking about it
so it's cognitively i think fresh enough
to where you get curious about it
you get curious here and then you
maintain your curiosity by actually
changing up
the cognitive action in the second step
and the cool thing is that
each of these actually goes and
reinforces the same idea
and so now for your second iteration
idea number one
is like twice as strong and then you do
you
externalize some more you like take
notes about it
and then you talk to person number two
about idea number one
and then you do some more research
and so what happens is that at the end
of the day
you're still reinforcing the same idea
whereas this person
keeps branching off idea number 86
idea number 100 and there's no way to
reinforce
on your original idea does that make
sense yep it does
and so i think that when we think about
you know if you get bored of things
easily you're doing something very very
cool
which is that you're i would call this
process in sanskrit this is something
called sangha
sangha actually means community and what
people discover when it comes to
meditation
is if you try to meditate by yourself
it'll fizzle out in like three days
that's how much energy you have
and then it's over the interesting thing
is that if you meditate
and then you're part of a community then
you talk to someone
about meditation you're like oh like how
do you meditate this is the way that i
meditate
you join a group and you guys all
meditate together
and then you read about meditation or
you go to a lecture
what this does is at the end of the day
this
reinforces meditation
even though you're going to get bored of
this activity
a conversation can be okay you're going
to hang out with other people and you're
going to read about it
and it reinforces the same activity and
so essentially what sangha lets you do
is maintain what we would call focus
but the interesting thing is if you get
distracted easily how do you focus
and i want you guys to really pay
attention to what pastel is doing
because pest gets bored easily of things
too
the only difference is that when he gets
bored easily
he does things that naturally get him
excited about stuff
okay and now i'm going to give you guys
one last example
so let's say you play what what games do
you play
uh escape from targov is the main one
it's a first person shooter
so let's say you're playing escape from
tarkov you get bored of eft
right but then what happens if you
watch a stream
you read a strategy so one of the one of
the questions i always get is how do i
not get bored of tarkov
i get it all the time but the thing is
i don't get bored because i always just
do different stuff
absolutely so you took took it right
took
got the punch line right yeah yeah
it's not everyone thinks it's just this
but i want you guys to pay attention to
what pesta is doing
because pest isn't just doing eft he's
doing eft
and then like side activity one
right let's do a 40 hour stream that's
actually a different idea
and then let's do let's write a guide
about it
no you're 100 right because i do guides
and then i do like
i don't know i'll do a challenge on
myself or i'll play the game with only
using one gun
or whatever like i just do random stuff
all the time
right i never get bored of talk of no
but see here's the thing right so when
they look at you and they say how do you
not get bored of tarkov
you do get bored of tarkov and then you
do different things
that maintain your focus in one
direction
so i think past the reason that you're
successful
is because your mind maintains focus in
a single direction
the reason you're successful is because
instead of building
10 wells that are one foot deep
you actually build one well that is 100
feet deep
but the tricky thing cognitively is like
how do you do that if you get bored
easily
you just i i don't know the well analogy
kind of falls apart but it's like sort
of like you use different tools to dig
the same well
it's like today i'm going to use a spade
and now i'm going to use a shovel
and now i'm going to use it because it's
so it's actually different activities
but all of those activities are aligned
in the same direction
so what do you think about that does
that make
would you agree disagree yeah no i
totally agree
okay so once again this is what i
discovered about my life so i'm going to
give you guys just an example
so first i was a monk or not not really
a monk
but i wanted to become a monk right so i
studied yoga and i was like oh like i
want to understand
okay here's here was my here's here's
how i started out
so i was like this is
and let me know if i'm boring you okay
fast no i'm good okay so this is where i
started
i suck at life because that's what it
was i sucked at life
like life is hard i'm a bad player life
i was like okay how does that work
okay gotta do something so i went to the
ashram
and i was like oh interesting this
is how people
work okay that's what i discovered
and then it was sort of like but i still
went back to okay
oh this is
how i suck at life
following me i sort of figured out like
how i suck at life i was like oh
interesting
so it's actually the same thing
but now i have a how and then i was like
okay well let's figure out how the
neuroscience of this works
so i started doing like eeg research
what's aug electro encephalogram
measuring brainwave patterns
okay on meditation
right and i was like okay so like that's
the how
and then went to med school
okay and then i was like okay like
instead of saving lives
i decided to like become a psychiatrist
because you know i wanted to know how i
suck at life
and now so now it's like okay this
is how other
people suck
at life sometimes it's illness that's
what my psychiatric training taught me
sometimes it's lack of direction
sometimes it's lack of dharma so this is
what india taught me
but at the end of the day do you do you
see how it's like it's all the same
thread
it's all the same thing it's like how
does life work
but i get distracted really easily
right that's how you keep your focus
absolutely
i keep my because i don't actually keep
my focus
it's bizarre i how does
life work okay so this is where i sort
of end up
and this question was born because i
sucked i was like how does this
how this stuff work i don't understand i
don't understand how
what's the deal with life and now like
even today so now what do i do because i
get bored easily
so i stream on twitch i do clinical
medicine
this is my favorite part now i get to do
the teaser
and then oh hold on no no there we go
so this is what i do in my free time
right so like this is my understanding
of depression
ignore this stuff over here but then i
sit down and i map out like okay how
does depression work there's clinical i
don't know i guess you guys can't see
that
but anyway so this is what i do so like
this is what i do in my free time
i write about depression i think about
depression i dictate about depression
and then i work with people and i stream
and we do all these different things
because i get bored easily
so it's like if i see patients for 30
hours a week i get bored
if i stream for like 10 hours a week i
get bored
and i'm hearing you do the same thing
and so i think the big takeaway for
people and i know i'm supposed to be
asking you questions but i think
past you're too good of an example of
this principle
that you're not i mean i do think you're
different in some ways don't get me
wrong
which i think is awesome but i think
that people can still learn that
what i want you guys to see is that like
sure pest
when he rises when a challenge faces him
he doesn't back down which is awesome
don't get me wrong and we'll talk a
little bit about that but one thing that
i want you guys to notice
is that i think there's a reason why
pest knocks it out of the park
in multiple parts of his life
right because that's what we're hearing
you're a dude who climbs mountains it
sounds like you
kind of were climbing in the military
and you could have continued to climb
you've become a successful
twitch streamer and what i really think
it is and i don't know how else to
explain this but it is what you do with
your mind
because i don't know if you guys get
this but most of success or failure in
life has nothing to do with your
physical body
most of it has to do with your mind
right call it studying call it your job
call it relationships
i know some people think that they're
physically unattractive and sure that
can get in the way
but it's like what you do with your mind
that's the most important
and what i hear is that pest has
discovered
a way to align his mind
towards a common goal despite deviating
this way in that
and what he does i don't know how to put
say this but he like
soaks his mind in
exposures that move him in the direction
towards a common goal
he goes and he talks to this guy and
then he reads about this thing
he immerses himself which we
think means that he he's like his mind
is super focused but it's not
it's just when his mind wanders he lets
it wander
but he lets it wander in a general
direction
and i think an example would be yeah um
like when i started my twitch stream
and i started like to figure out how the
twitch universe worked and how to become
successful
i was like oh you know um twitch doesn't
have the greatest discoverability so
what i need to do is i need to start a
youtube channel oh how do i start a
youtube channel and then i was like oh
i'll
you know start creating videos and so i
literally just
threw myself at adobe for like three
days straight and in three days i pretty
much taught
myself how to make youtube videos so i
started making youtube videos and i just
kind of like just
i and what i like to do a lot of is i i
try something
test it and if it fails i don't stress
too much about it because it's either a
lesson learnt
or maybe i just implemented it wrong or
in a poor way and i could just
use it in a different way at a different
time or maybe it was it was too big of
an idea
too early in the career or something
like that like i
i try and treat everything like a bit of
a lesson learnt or how maybe
i'm not afraid to fail as well that's i
look like an idiot half the time on
stream anyway with some of the stuff i
do like i dressed up as a therapist from
the game
you know like and i just i don't care if
people like it's been on seven news in
australia
like that stream and it's just like i
just have fun with it i just try and
enjoy it
so why don't you mind failure how long
have you
not cared about failure um
as long as i'm confident that i did the
best i can do
within realistic like measures then i
it doesn't affect me as much as i
probably
i might affect most people i don't know
why it's the case but
how long have you been that way
um i'd say a fair while
i were you that at least before okay
before you joined the military
it probably was in the lead-up to the
military i
i remember a period before the military
where
i was very self-conscious a lot of
things i did and i was like
i wanted to become a better person i
remember for a fact i wanted to become a
better person because i was just like
you know people would do cool stuff and
i was like why can't i do it
i was very like self-conscious of that
stuff
um i kind of remember what i used to
listen to in that
but it was just like i used to watch
like
um i think it might have been just
before youtube because there was other
websites but
it used to be like videos that you could
watch you know as people just talking
about how to become the best person they
can be and
and part of it was that there's like the
physical you know
physically fit part of your body and
also the mental so you strengthen your
mind and your body so i used to work out
a lot
i used to like bodybuild not for a
competitive side
but more of just like i just wanted to
be the fittest strongest person i could
be
and i used to be really strong and fit
like i still got a lot of muscle mass
but
like i still look after myself but then
it was the same with the mental side and
the mental part was the hardest part to
train
than the body the body was easy you just
go to gym five days a week you got two
rest days it's all good
whereas you've got a measurable well
you've got a measurable weight it's like
you go to the gym
and you can do it where the mind is it's
it you can get lost in the mind really
like um and it's a lot easier just to be
like oh i won't worry about that today
or
i don't know i found that's how i found
it
there was definitely a period between
like 18 and 21 when i went full time in
the military before when i went
full time in the military i was very
i felt like i was older than the
majority of people around me
because i felt like i'd developed my
mind more
as in in a maturity level than a lot of
the other people
um about a year before i joined i lost
my life license i know it was about
a little bit less than a year a little
bit less than a year before i joined
i lost my license to drink driving and
um
it wasn't like i wasn't like heaps over
i think i was 0.08 so in america i think
that's legal
um but i had a little bit of shame
behind it but after that i
didn't drink for a long time like three
years i didn't really drink
and i saw all my mates getting really
drunk in that and i'm like i'm gonna go
to the gym and i'm gonna skateboard and
you know do all the things that i enjoy
and a lot of people are pushing
like they were all always about the
partying side and i was more about let's
go explore and have fun and adventure
kind of side so i don't know
that's a bit of a tangent sorry no no i
appreciate it i
i'm i'm glad you're sharing this because
i think it once again tells us that
just go to the gym five days a week has
been damn near an impossibility for me
my entire life
um is is i'll put a question to you
if is is it because it's not a priority
like okay let me put it in this
perspective like if
like you don't a lot of people say they
don't have time to do something
right but if you got home and you're
like i don't have time to go to the gym
but
what if like you got home and your
dishwasher or
your toilet was leaking all over the
floor well now you have time to call a
plumber
to fix the toilet right yeah whereas
beforehand you had no time to go to the
gym well it's i don't
see it not having enough time ever as an
excuse
i see it as it's not a priority i agree
completely
i didn't say i don't have enough time to
go to the gym i said i'll just use
an example of yeah a lot of people use
that i don't have time thing and i'm
like
but it's just not a priority yeah so in
my experience
i'm someone who would much rather
have gone to the gym than go to the gym
yep and you know i
sort of take care of myself i could take
care of myself better
but i agree with you that in my case
it's an issue of priority
but i i think you know it's interesting
past because i think there are some
things we can learn from you
and there are some things that you say
that make me think that like some of
this may be a little bit more intrinsic
i think there are a couple of really
really important anyway so let me ask
you a couple other
questions that okay yeah and then i'll
try to
try to sort of summarize a little bit in
a second but there are a few minutes
so can you tell us so it sounds like it
was sort of a rough transition from
leaving the military and like sort of
starting to stream on twitch can you
tell us about that
it was more of a rush rough transition
because i didn't know what i wanted to
do
um i knew what i enjoyed but
i didn't like the pressure i put on my
my girlfriend
who's now my wife at the time that i
wasn't making any money and she was the
only person making money paying all the
bills
i did have a little bit of money saved
it wasn't like i didn't contribute
anything
um and
also not having a lot of friends um a
lot of my friends either in the military
had moved
back home to where they were from or
been posted different states
and a lot of the friends that i grew up
with live back in a different state
so we were living in south australia
which
we moved to the middle of nowhere like
it was three hours or two hours from the
city
um so i needed to
re i had to push myself back into
society in ways and i joined the lawn
bowls
team lorne bowles is like botchy but on
grass
for anyone who doesn't know what it is
um where everyone plays when they're
retired no one's under the age of like
60. so like but the coolest thing is
they're the people that know all the
fishing tips and tricks and spots so
kind of worked out well with that but um
so yeah that was i started streaming to
literally make friends and i made a heap
of friends
pretty quick most of them moderators now
or they might have moved on to different
things but
it's been nice so were you feeling
lonely
um
maybe a little bit maybe a little bit
not a lot like i wasn't like i need to
go find friends
right now but i definitely why so help
me understand why
because you make it sound like the
primary reason to stream was to make
friends
so why did you feel like it because a
lot of times loneliness
and maybe there's a lesson to be learned
here when i think about people who are
hungry for friends i sort of assume for
a moment that they're lonely
but what i'm hearing from you is not
necessarily that you were lonely but you
were still very
intentional about making friends so
i love playing computer games i really
enjoy playing computer games
i can't play a computer game for more
than probably an hour before i'm bored
if i'm not playing with friends so when
i've got a
chat i can play all day there's no issue
with that
when i started streaming like literally
all my friends were married with kids
didn't play computer games anymore
they'd all moved on from the gaming
scene like nearly no one i played
computer games with when i was younger
still plays computer games
so i wanted people that enjoyed the same
games as me to just find to play games
and
and have good chats and play till three
in the morning four in the morning and
all that kind of stuff but um i still
had
friends but not ones that i could either
hang out with or play computer games
with
so you started streaming just sort of to
try to find people to game with
and to talk to during the day yeah
and then when did you start to think
about this as a career
um so that was in october i started
doing that in january
i went on a big drive along the east
coast of australia with my wife
and we um
i don't know i maybe had like 15 20 subs
and something like that
and i was like i actually feel like i
understand how the platform works
um i've done by that stage i've done a
bit of research and stuff and i didn't
really
stream that whole month and i said i
want to
give it a give it a solid crack i want
to give it like a year or two years
um and i'll just go really hard i'll
throw everything i can at it and i'll
just want to see
where it goes and it sounds weird but
i said if i could get maybe 2 000
followers because by the way i was like
i'm going to sell my house
to go to europe like i was legitimately
happy to sell my house to move to
travel europe i said if i can get 2 000
followers that might be interested in my
travels through europe
and i can like maybe fund it some way
through that
then you know it could be all worth it
and so
yeah i started streaming in hope to get
2 000 followers before i got to europe
how did you decide to go to you so you
decided that you were gonna go to europe
and climb
in 2012 and when did you start streaming
on twitch
so what were you doing when were you in
the military
from 2009 to 2017.
i see okay so you started streaming on
twitch in 2017.
and when did it become really like a
career for you or a job
2018 and what happened around that time
um that's when i went on that drive with
my wife and we decided i'm going to give
it a go and then that's why i
started taking it more serious i just
started working as a part-time paid fire
fighter so i had
some sort of income as well so it wasn't
just my wife making all the money but
um it really took off pretty quick to be
honest
what's your understanding of that within
two months i was partnered
i think two to three months and then the
graph
is hasn't really slowed down
what's your understanding of why that
happened
i feel like i'm a friendly person i
think my whole
my whole basis is the fact that we're
just a bunch of like-minded people that
just enjoy computer games and i'm not
the best at the game but
i just want to invite anyone who wants
to have
friends or make friends the people that
like we've got a common interest escape
from tarkov
like i play a lot of other games now at
the moment but
everyone that pretty much jumps into my
channel likes escape from tarkov
you're not judged on anything but what
you say in chat and your name
that's pretty much all they can judge
you on and you know where you're from in
the world doesn't matter you can just
we can hang out we can talk and we're
just a big community
and i've been big on just a community
aspect like
i promote streams in the tarkov category
i know like a lot of most
most streamers and categories on twitch
they don't promote other channels like
not very often
i'll literally be talking about another
streamer and be shouting them out during
the stream all the time or
i used to do it a lot more than now but
um
i i'm more than happy for everyone to be
successful i feel like if the category's
a really healthy category then it just
promotes all channels and grows all
channels anyway so
why not have a good community across
twitch a cool thing i've been doing of
more recent
is when i do a big event like a
starlight charity event i actually have
intermission periods so say the stream
goes for 12 hours at the four and eight
hour mark i'll get
um a streamer from the music section a
professional musician
and i'll play on my stream for 10
minutes and it advertises their stream
but gives 10 minutes of music
entertainment to my to to my community
so it's it's gives me a break i get 10
minutes to just drink some water and sit
back
listen to cool music i love it i think
twitch is an amazing platform and we
should all try and push everyone
together to grow
as well yeah i can see why you've been
rising
and growing i think it's really awesome
pes to the way that you
talk about your experience on twitch the
way that you know people use this word
wholesome a lot
but i i think you know you're there
because you love the game and you love
the community
um and it sounds fantastic man
so you mentioned that you had a
girlfriend and now your wife
so it sounds like you guys have been
together for a little while
um just about five years now can you
tell do you mind if i ask a few
questions about her
yeah within reason like i i sure
i'll save it yeah just let me know um
because i you know i like we when we
kind of think about the corporal
for example and just sort of how him
being authentic with you and sort of
like how you guys kind of had that
mutual respect as you put it i'm
noticing that
in your life you're not playing single
player
right you partied up and and the
questions that i have about your
girlfriend or wife aren't really so much
about like you know her but more about
her influence on you is that
fair you think that's okay yep okay yeah
so can you tell us just a little bit
about
um how you all met oh we met on tinder
actually
which is like most people don't find
relationships on tinder but i did um
yeah the actual meeting story is pretty
funny but um
yeah we just we she actually i messaged
her and she said i'm really busy right
now can you talk
to me in two weeks and said sure i said
sure and i waited two weeks to the day
and messaged
her and she was surprised so um it kind
of went from there
but um yeah we dated for
three or four months and then we became
official and
i don't know we've just had a really
open dialogue for majority of our
or for our whole relationship really can
you tell us a little bit about
how the relationship has intertwined
with
your life
um sorry it's a bad question
um i was just kind of thinking so i i
get the sense that she's actually like
very supportive of you
and 100 i would not be anywhere near
this successful without her
yeah so tell can you help us understand
that for a second
um well she was willing to put up the
crazy idea that i wanted to share my
twitch
uh full time that that was um pretty
full on i actually tried to push her out
of her job
to help me once it started getting
bigger and she wanted to
finish um her contract and she decided
that
just i needed more help so she actually
finished up a little bit early to help
me
um just because there was that much
going on but pretty much anything that's
ever happened with my stream
she's known about it at the same time
i've thought about it because i'd be
like hey
i've got this idea can we do this and
she'd be like how are you going to make
it work and i'm like
you know and she's like maybe like don't
do that bit but everything else will
work
all right cool you know and it's been
very much like that from the very start
and
i'd have an idea because pestilence
based off the word pestilence
um and so you know like the plague
doctor for example so like i played the
long game you know with the coronavirus
i started planning this whole plague
mass thing
two years in advance so um she helped
made all the logo and all that and she's
got a she's a really creative
like as in artist creative person which
is really cool
um and so yeah like all those kind of
ideas
would go to her at some point
and then yeah i had to develop onto the
stream
she's been amazingly supportive i don't
know what you want what exactly you want
me to say
oh
because it's i think we see that right
so we we see that she
you know she's kind of behind the scenes
i sort of have detected that
in a lot of the different stories that
you've told
um and so i i just wanted to help us uh
help everyone who's kind of thinking a
little bit about your story like what
role she plays in it
sounds like she's incredibly supportive
um 100
and not just in an emotional sense but
in uh
you know you know like very practical
like she sounds like she designed some
of your art
um yeah she's she's my manager now so
she runs the actual business
yeah there's same same with me too
actually so
that's there are a lot of coincidences
so i i have basically stories to match
each and every one of yours
and and my wife is now my boss yep
um so yeah it's interesting i i think
you know i've had a lot of interesting
experiences about working with your
significant other um and
it's been fun but it's i imagine much
like yourself so i think we were
relatively small channel until she took
over
and then she helped us become big
um and so
yeah i mean i think just kind of getting
a quick perspective on on
you know so it sounds like she's pretty
involved and also supports you in terms
of like taking
risks in terms of figuring out you know
if you have
uh and now i may be projecting a little
bit from my own relationship but
you know it sounds like if you have an
idea she tries to help you make it work
instead of it just being a crazy idea
she would never shut me down
she would at least listen through the
idea first
and like sort of make it figure out how
to make it feasible
and ideally it can't be feasible i've
never said something and she's just gone
no
like that that's something she would
never do because she knows that
i might say something that's a little
bit out there but i actually have
already thought of a bit of a process to
get there
so she'd want to actually hear it out
first
um like like even the fact like we've
been stuck in europe to try and get back
to australia like i was like what if we
just
bought a yacht like i know it sounds
crazy but like
i love fishing and sailing and all that
kind of stuff like what if we bought a
yacht
and then we just hired a crew and we
just like but
like we had to go down the path of we
don't know what to look at
in a yacht like what kind of like it
could we could buy a lemon and we'd be
halfway across the pacific and sail to
the bottom of the ocean you know like we
have no idea what we're doing
so like you listen to the idea but
you know obviously that one didn't go
ahead but it's she won't just go nowhere
so past you know what's really fun is to
watch your face when you talk about her
yeah do you know what you do when you
start talking small
absolutely right lights up your entire
face
do you feel when you talk about her i'm
i'm i'm happily married i think it's
clear
i'm gonna do that i'm gonna do the
political response
i think that's the beauty right is that
it's like it's not it's clear to us
i think or clear to me anyway that it's
not political i mean i
i think in all seriousness to do a job
particularly like what i do
um there is a lot of hours to go into it
and i have to make sure i allocate time
to spend with my wife and she does
she kind of draws like says hey you know
we haven't had a time
to ourselves for a while let's like next
week we're going to see a castle in the
netherlands because
i've worked every day for the last like
i don't know two weeks
so it's like hey we need a she she keeps
me leveled
yeah so pes is there something in
particular
um first of all thank you so much for
sharing everything is there anything
else
anything in particular that you want to
talk about that we haven't discussed or
anything you wanted to share
not really um
i don't see myself as like better than
anyone or anything like that i hope that
i haven't come across like that at all i
i just i definitely do feel like i
i see things differently to a lot of
people a lot of people will see an idea
and think oh that's really hard
and i don't i i kind of like i just get
excited by the options of like what if
that was possible
or something like that like i don't know
i
a little bit of fear of like i might
come across as really arrogant in this
talk or something because
you know how my thought processes go
across but
um yeah pasta i'm gonna say something
i think you are better than average well
thank you
i mean i i think you are better than
most people
and i think part of and and i i know
it's sort of like we
i don't think that any human being is
that like has more inherent
value than another human being and at
the same time
i think when a lot of people look at you
i know when i listen to you i think
about the ways in which you are better
than i am
and this is the crazy thing is i don't
think that that's bad
i think that you are different and you
are exceptional
you've done a couple of things that are
i think many people would be envious of
and it doesn't mean that i think you
accurately representing those things
i can imagine people would perceive as
arrogance but i don't think so i think
the whole reason that you're here
is so that we can learn how to be better
right and and i'm not saying that like
in a sense i think that's true of
everyone that comes on the stream
we're here to learn from you and in your
case i think you have
objectively done things that are like
difficult to do
you objectively the way that your mind
works and the way that you live your
life
seems to be like pretty enviable like
let's be honest
and i think that's okay it doesn't make
you arrogant it just means
you suck less at life and so i think the
important thing
the reason i'm really glad you came on
and that you've been so open is because
i think we can learn from you
and the whole goal of this channel is
that like we can learn what everyone has
to offer
and we can become better at life by like
learning a little bit of your playbook
what works what doesn't
i think i mean some of the stuff that
you're talking about i can get behind
some of it i can try to
deconstruct and duplicate and some of it
i'm just gonna have to figure out my own
way
because at the end of the day going to
the gym five days a week is just as you
put it not enough of a priority for me
you know and so we we're gonna have
something important awake anymore just
to be clear
like but like i think there's definitely
um people
don't prioritize what's important to
them sometimes and and and i'm the same
like i go i really want to look after my
health but then i don't go to the gym
so like why yeah no go ahead i was
i was going to say why don't people
prioritize what's important to them
i don't want to say the words lazy
because i don't think people are always
lazy it's just a matter of
like they get distracted easy like
there's
like like so many bright lights around
us these days
where and and things that just distract
us so it's like oh another episode of
you know i was gonna say game of thrones
but no one wants to talk about game of
thrones anymore but
another episode of a tv show comes out
oh i'll just watch that
you know like it's just it's they have
full intention to go to the gym they
were probably
already going to their gym clothes and
that but it's just you know
something's shiny and it just distracts
them
yeah so it's it's hard it's and there's
so much we all want to do
and we've only got so much time the most
valuable thing we all have is time and
i don't like the idea of wasting it
yeah i i don't think many people do
which is why it can be so frustrating
when they find themselves wasting it
so pes let me ask you so i i think it's
i really appreciated all the questions
you've
answered and your openness is there
anything in particular that um
i can help you with or anything that you
want to work on
um not really when you when you message
asking for a talk
i i i actually sat and
i didn't reply straight away because i
thought you know what could we talk
about
and i like i go through the same like i
had like yesterday for example
i woke up and i just did not want to
talk to people
i had no one i did not want to talk to
people so instead i
instead of streaming i worked on youtube
content you know i i just did something
else
like i i go through the same mentalities
and issues i'm sure other streamers
would go through and other content
creators and
and that way you just or people just in
general not wanting to go to work for
the day but i just try and make the most
of the
like the day i can and then i think i
watched
maybe four episodes of carnival row on
the couch
but you know i got to rest as well
that's how i say it
yeah that was the risk so let's just
talk about that for a second i think
that there's a really important
shift that you make in your mind
which is i think a lot of times people
focus on what they can't do
and what they try to do is overcome the
can't
like how can you turn the cant into a
can
right like i just can't talk to people
today
and they look at their lives and they
say like okay like what i need to do to
move forward is like you know how do i
go to the gym
like how do i just how do i just muscle
through and do that
how can i grow and become disciplined
and not be lazy
whereas i think you figured out a pretty
interesting solution which is you just
don't try to overcome it it's not about
what you can't do and overcoming what
you can't do
it's about what can you do
and that's something that i found in my
own life which is like i can't
go to the gym five days a week but like
what can i do
and i find that the less time that i
spend trying to overcome my weaknesses
and the more time that i spend sort of
like giving in to myself
but at least extracting a little bit of
the direction i want to go in
the better off i am can i at least do
five minutes of yoga
can i do 10 push-ups can i just can i
just do something like what can i do
okay fine you want to be lazy [ __ ]
today
no big deal we're going to be lazy today
but what can we do do we have to be lazy
for 14 hours of the day
can we just be lazy for 13 and a half
and at least for 30 minutes like
clean the kitchen and what i would
encourage everyone to do is just pay
attention to what pest said
and sure so you're like you're like i
can't talk to people today i just can't
stream okay but i can work on youtube
content right
and that too is sort of this idea that
like you have this central idea and like
okay you can't stream but
you're willing to go over here to
youtube which is still like moving you
it's still digging your well one foot
deeper it's just using a different tool
for the day
100 and for the people
like really i encourage all of you guys
to think about exercise or
you know finding a job it's like i can't
find a job and like
think about what pest has been telling
us okay what's the process what can you
do
make a resume okay i don't even like
know how to make a resume can you
download a template
can you download a template and just
change the name and the address at the
top
because then you're one step closer to
where you want to be
can you at least look at other people's
resumes
with anything really yeah
what can you do and i think too much of
our or
too much of myself and us we spend so
much time and this is like the problem
because i think a lot of like the
self-help kind of stuff like david
goggins is a good example
if he's all about overcoming can't
right he's like and i'm not saying
that's bad i'm just saying that there's
like
there's a different way overcoming can't
is half the battle
and sometimes the other half is giving
in to camp and focusing on what you can
do
a lot of david goggins stuff is also
saying stop giving a [ __ ] what other
people think though
um which i i kind of agree with that
stuff stop caring about what other
people think
do what you want to do if you want to do
this be the best of that you can be
you know like it's not always overcoming
issues but the negative forces of
people's
ideas and that coming towards you as
well like
yeah i don't know like that that for me
that's more where i
i just block out other people's you know
negativity with that as well
because if i'm like i wanna i wanna do
this like
i've wanted to walk 100 kilometers
before and i've done it you know like
just to see if i could do it but
there's so many people to be out there
like you couldn't do that don't do it
like that's stupid or you should go to
bed because you've been up too long stop
you should stop you look tired well i'm
not tired i know that i can
stay awake for three days straight i've
done it three times in the military
like you can say i can't do this but i'm
doing it so
you're wasting your time typing that
that's how i see it i don't
look at someone's message of me like
you're silly like i don't know
yeah past i think you have a strong
sense of who you are
as a person and you come across as very
confident which makes it easy to
discount what other people say i think
the challenge is that
when someone says something about you
you have an intrinsic sense when they
say
you shouldn't do that that's dumb and
inside you there's something that rises
up and fights against that it's like you
don't know who i am i know who i am
you shouldn't stay up for well i've done
it before so you should
sit [ __ ] out i think the challenge is
a lot of people don't have that
right and and so if it's okay with you
past can i try to highlight a couple of
things that i've heard you say that i
think
maybe can get people moving sort of a
little bit in the direction that you
found yourself in
yeah official 100 okay so it starts with
curiosity
right so if we really listen to you past
what we hear is that like
when you're curious about something you
actually
invest the time and energy to try to
pursue it
and i think this is huge because i think
a lot of people are very curious
but the curiosity ends with like a
wikipedia search
and there's something about you know the
way that you cultivate ideas and like
devote yourself to like you know the
same thing over and over and over again
but
you're curious and you're bored easily
which i think that's not something that
is unique to you i think that's for most
people
gamers in particular i think twitch this
entire generation tends to be like
curious and bored easily and so i think
that's instrumental to getting you to
where you've gone the only difference is
that i think you've actually
fed your curiosity in a really healthy
way
and as far as the board easily like the
way that you kind of still focus your
thoughts in one general direction
although you let yourself get bored
but when you get bored you're kind of
like okay what can i do with my boredom
that's almost in the direction that i
want to go
the second thing is that i i want you
guys to really pay attention to this
because i think pest didn't do it alone
right and i think if we really listen to
your story we hear that
it starts with like when you're on the
brink of quitting one person having
faith in you
and one person looking at you and saying
i don't think you
are the person that you think you are
you've come so close to quitting and
ultimately they didn't like
they didn't give you a huge speech but
they saw within you
something that has value and they saw
within you that
underneath all of the layers of a
quitter
is someone who doesn't quit
and that i think is is huge we also see
that even now
it's not a single player game right like
in when you kind of talk about your wife
we see the way the way your face lights
up
we see like how she's been helpful and
supportive and stuff like that how she
kind of keeps you in check
but also gives you wings
um
so one time i was working with someone
so
in some of these hospitals that i work
in there are these like older people who
are just super wise
usually not doctors but they're like
nurses and just like people who just
have really
and and you know when i had kids i went
to this one person who i respected a lot
and they've got a couple of kids and i
assumed their kids are
healthy and happy so i asked him like
hey do you have any like advice for like
raising children
and he said yeah give him wings and give
him a place to fly back to
and it was like one of those just
amazingly
succinct like give him wings
and let him fly and then have a place to
come back to and when i hear about your
relationship with
your wife that's kind of what i get is
that she does
you know support you she always listens
and then every now and then she's like
hey you've been working for two weeks
let's be normal human beings and take a
little bit of a break
right so she gives you those wings and
then she gives you a place to come back
to
so the second thing is that you know
it's important to have people in your
life and then if you don't then how do
you get those as a whole other question
um so i think that faith
has been transformative for you and
support has been transformative for you
that ultimately i think a lot of your
growth has come from
you exercising control and taking
control of your life
which i know is hard to duplicate but
you know you sort of tried it for a
while and you kind of played this game
and then people were like
they weren't willing so at some point
you developed that faith and confidence
in yourself
and your ceo refused to see it
and so there was one time in your life
where all you saw within yourself was a
quitter
and someone refused to see it there's
another time in your life where
what they saw was a quitter and you
refused to see that
you're like you know what [ __ ] you guys
i'm done
um and so i think it's really amazing
how you've
you know taken risks and you don't know
how things are going to go
and another thing that i would say is
that like this kind of comes back to
what you were saying about you don't
fear
failure i think that's one of the
biggest problems is because the fear of
failure
tends to paralyze a lot of people
the other subtle thing that we can hear
from your words is that when you
fail i don't hear it say anything about
you as a person like a lot of people
feel like when they
fail they are a failure like the person
and the failure are the same thing does
that make sense
yeah yeah so i don't see the failure
as being something that is the
it's i see as a lesson learned that more
than just being like
unable to do something yeah so i want
you like so that's really interesting
right because for one person
a failure means i'm a bad person
but when you feel fail when you say it's
a lesson learned that actually makes you
a better person
and so if you want to talk about what's
op it's when failure pushes one person
down
and failure pumps you up like why the
like no that's
that's op every failure you have
actually makes you
stronger and better and gives you a
sense of like confidence that you're
you're better than the person you used
to be before
and then there's like a whole crowd of
people out there who are like when they
fail they feel like less of a human
being
and it's like you know i wanna i wanna i
want your strategy
and that's what i've seen a lot in
clinical medicine too
is that like sometimes when you have a
bad outcome with a patient you can feel
like a bad doctor
and then like the other way to think
about it is like
now that you've had that bad outcome
i'll be damned if i ever let that happen
again
and what you've actually done in that
moment is improved the lives of
every patient that you're gonna see
afterward if you learn from it
if you throw yourself a pity party and
you feel like a bad person
you're actually doing a disservice to
all the patients that come next so i
think that's really fascinating which i
hear you kind of talk about like you
know failure isn't about your value as a
person it's about
learning and then the last thing that i
want to highlight is that
you know a lot of people think that you
need like discipline and stuff and when
we look at past and we think like oh my
god this guy's so disciplined
but i think it's really cool that you
learned adobe in three days
and i think that there's absolutely a
road of six towards success where you
dive really deep into something for a
few days
and then you don't have to devote your
entire life to like making youtube
videos
that you can actually have your mind
wander between different things
get super excited about something learn
it really well but as long as it's in
the same
general direction i think you're going
to end up kind of like where you did
what do you think yeah
i think you don't need to be the master
of everything there's no way you need to
devote all your time and effort into
mastering one trade
um like yeah the adobe is a good example
where i just i learned enough to make
youtube videos and then i started making
youtube videos
i i thought it'd be really cool to be
able to make really cool
transitions and everything but i soon
realized like that would be so time
consuming
in hindsight i would actually hire an
editor like early on in my career
i made my first 500 youtube videos in
the first two years and that was a lot
of life that it took
from me but um the
i do that with a lot of things though
i'll try try something out for a little
bit see if i like it
put some time into learning it and then
but just enough to get the understanding
of it not to
to master it i think i think there's a
lot people can do with that where you
don't have to feel like you have to
master
the craft of something to be
it's like there's a guy that said in 10
hours you can learn something i was like
ted talk or something
and he played the guitar after 10 hours
and he learned a song or something or
ukulele actually it was
it was a really cool ted talk in 10
hours you can actually learn a language
for example you can
learn the basic rapport building of a
language or something
um so yeah i think there's some
definite premise behind that piece
anything that you think i kind of left
out
those are i think the key things like
sort of curiosity
it's okay to get bored easily having
people have faith in you
being able to quit walking away from
good things
um acknowledging that failure is not
about
you it's a failure actually makes you
stronger not weaker
um and kind of diving in this kind of
goes to the board easily thing but sort
of diving into one thing for like a few
days at a time and then
that's good enough i think um
a lot of a lot of that can be summarized
up in just always trying to improve
myself as a person
really um i always
try and be the best person i can be and
not just in like
a what do you call it like a a practical
sense like being able to have these
skills to make a video but
also like i try to reply to every single
discord dm there is i get a lot these
days but like i still try to reply to
them all like
just try and be the best person you can
be and one of the things i'm big with my
community is paying it forward
like i'll do something for you and then
you do it for someone something for
someone else it doesn't have to be
directly back to me
um and with that premise we can just
make a better society and a better
community
um i'm i'm guessing you're trying to
start to head towards wrapping it up but
i actually really just uh um i just like
the fact that people
aren't so community focused these days
like when i was a child i everyone knew
their neighbors
so when i bought a house the first thing
i did well not literally the first but
like
within the 24 hours of moving into my
house i went and said hello to all my
neighbours i've knocked on every single
one of their doors and said hello hi
my name's paul um you know i live next
door i'm in the army if you ever need
anything just
you know knock on the door i'm i don't
care how big or small
and and from that point onwards they
were the best neighbors ever because
like someone parked in my driveway once
and they gave me a call and said hey
there's some random car in your driveway
like they didn't have to do that but if
i'd never introduced myself
they never would have done that you know
and that community aspect
isn't just like a twitch thing for me
it's it's a life thing
you know just be good to everyone and
hopefully it all
makes the world a better place yeah man
i am i'm sort of leaning towards
wrapping up is there something that you
want to
discuss otherwise or anything else you i
think it's a great great sentiment about
community i think that's actually one of
the really interesting things is
twitch is a place where or just the
internet is a place that in a lot of
ways fractures and isolates us
but i think conversely is the very
antidote
to the poison that it kind of creates
and we sort of
sort of get the sense of fomo and like
you know
thinking less about the ourselves and
seeing what other people are doing in it
at the same time it's the very tool that
we can use to bring ourselves together
yeah and i think twitch is a really
great platform for community
i really i as a marketing side i really
wish they pushed it more
is it marketing what side like the
twitch twitch management should be
actually focusing more on the community
aspect than anything
on the platform yeah and how they can
enhance the community because i think
it's just i think it's great i think
there's so much they could do so much
more they could do
what would you like to see even like
like among us is a perfect example of
how anyone playing any game can play the
one game and enjoy it
me bringing musicians across to play on
my stream
like all those kind of things where we
could
bring communities like from different
streams across together to
to cross-pollinate i guess would be the
word but also
um
like i i before kobe kicked in i did
meet ups in
in france portugal and the netherlands
and i went to pax east um but like
you know conventions are great like all
that kind of stuff
where people can go and hang out and
talk
meet each other and have fun or if they
don't want to go to those conventions
they can still play games together and
just anything that enhances the
community aspect of twitter i'm
all for and stuff like this this is
actually like
bringing people together to talk about
stuff so thank you so much for what you
do
as well yeah likewise man i think it's
thank you so much for coming i think
too often i do we focus on sort of the
downsides of life like we focus a lot on
how people mess up and what i really
appreciated about you pest is that
i think you gave us an opportunity for
like
you know what is what does success look
and i don't mean to make you know i'm
not trying to kiss your ass or anything
or flatter you but i think that
you know when you look at it you play a
game and some games you win in some
games you lose
it's just as important to look at the
replays that you win so that you can
figure out what did you do right
and equally important to look at the
replays that you lost to figure out what
you did wrong
and living life is about like
understanding both of those sides it's
not just about all your mistakes in fact
i'd argue that
a lot of what holds people back is that
they focus too much on their mistakes
going back to this idea of like how do i
overcome what i can't do well like
just set that aside for a second man
let's look at you what you can do let's
look at what you are good at
let's look at like how do people
transition
from a place of being lonely and not
having friends to like starting a twitch
stream and things like that i think
success stories are just as important
not just because it's like
success men but very practically like
you know what are the things that you
can do
um so i really appreciate that so thank
you very much
um do you want do you do you are you
interested in learning how to meditate
do you meditate
um i used to have an app called
headspace and
it used to like the issue i used to
always have with it was
um once as soon as my brain starts to
stop thinking i fall asleep because i
don't sleep a lot
i get like seven hours at the moment in
the past it used to be five hours
um i guess seven hours sleep at night
and now i'm not i'm really happy i get
that much now
but anytime i meditate i usually just
fall asleep
so um i know you're pretty big on it and
and i've definitely tried it in the past
but generally for me a lot of the time
i just fall asleep okay it's okay
okay i'll ask you this question then is
there a way to instead of meditating to
calm the mind is there a way to like
keep the mind active but still
stop me from sleeping then sure i've got
a meditation for you
okay you ready for it yep so if i asked
you to close your eyes and meditate now
do you think you'd fall asleep here on
stream
no why not
um it depends on how long it went for
okay so so i've got a great meditation
for you it's perfect you're suited for
it
it's gonna be so easy for you it's gonna
be hard for other people but i think
it'll be easy for you so i don't know
how much it'll help other people to
learn
meditation okay you ready for it
i want you to catch the moment of sleep
and what i mean by that is that
close your eyes paul so you're awake
right
and so like being awake has a certain
consciousness
you can notice your thoughts you may be
aware of sensations you can hear my
words
and sleep is different right
so what i want you to do
this is going to sound silly because i
know you said you
you were not gonna fall asleep but i
want you to
try to fall asleep and as
because don't remember it's not about
going back to what we just said like
don't focus on what you can't do like if
you always fall asleep during meditation
fine
that's not a problem that's our solution
let's run with it
so what i want you to do is catch the
moment of sleep
so there's going to be a transition
where on one side of the transition
you're awake and on the other side of
this transition you're asleep
and just catch that moment of sleep
it's like you're fishing there's nothing
on the
line and now there's a fish on the line
catch that moment
between empty hook and fish on the hook
let yourself fall asleep
we'll try for about five minutes
can i be silent or do you want me to
coach you through the process
um it's up to you i'm i'm
i don't know what are you doing right
now tell me
i'm just focusing on my breathing
okay and waiting for yourself to fall
asleep
pretty much good
so i want you to be like a tiger
crouching
ready to catch that sleep
wait for it wait for it
notice what your mind is doing
and now i'll be silent for about three
minutes
are you asleep yet not yet
what are you doing just focusing on
breathing
okay so i'm going to ask you a couple of
questions is that okay
yep so like focusing on your breathing
is meditating right
what happens when you meditate
um you relax no no what happens when you
meditate
oh um
i know my body just feels more heavy
yep and then you fall asleep yeah
what have you been doing for the last
five minutes meditating
why haven't you fallen asleep
i think probably anxiousness if anything
that would have sleep in front of uh
in you like this are you thinking lots
of thoughts
yeah too many okay
so here's the crazy thing so i think
you're doing a good job
and maybe it's because you're on stream
although i'm going to assume for a
moment that it's not
so maybe the reason you didn't fall
asleep is because you're on stream fair
enough
but i want you to try to do is to catch
the moment of sleep
offstring and see what happens
and i suspect that something silly may
happen
which is that if you try to meditate
you'll fall asleep
and if you try to catch sleep you'll
meditate
does that make sense yeah it is
you can come back to us
how do you feel relaxed
so catch it if it wants to come let it
come catch it
and maybe you won't fall asleep maybe
you will win
win either way if you do fall asleep
next time
you felt you know you fell asleep you
missed it you missed your prey
so next time you can practice and do a
little bit better
questions does that make sense
yeah it does cool man
well thank you very much oh my pleasure
that was really good it was really good
yeah thank you could you want to just
tell us a little bit i i know you've
talked to them about stream but you want
to tell us kind of more formally like
you know who you are where we can find
you what kind of streams you do
so twitch.tv forward slash pastely i'm
mostly focused on first-person shooters
but i'm branching out into pretty much
anything but i feel like at the moment
um it's mostly just a community people
that just enjoy computer games and we
just have fun and
a lot of banter um it's we don't take
gaming serious it's i'm not trying to be
the best out there i'm just trying to
have fun try and teach people and
sometimes they teach me games when i
play different games as well and
yeah it's a bunch of cool people
awesome pastel and thank you very much
and everything
yeah that's awesome thank you so much
for coming and best of luck with
streaming and
and all that and thank you for what you
do it's like
it's really cool i've um i've i've
definitely listened to a few
um different youtube videos in and out
over time so
really thank you so much for what you do
yeah you're very welcome man
and and you know as someone
who has a wife who supports me
and i don't know how to say this but
please express my gratitude to your wife
for people like her existing in the
world because i'm one of the
beneficiaries of people like her
yeah i should be 100 listening right now
so okay
all right well then thank you very much
to pastor lee's wife
all right for supporting noobs like us
[Laughter]
take care man best of luck all right see
you bye